>> Scott Moss: All right, so,
what we're gonna do now is we're
gonna make all these routes.
So, for our app we need, I mean,
I pretty much put it all here.
We need a root layout,
if we don't have it already.
We need an auth route group with a
/signin and /signup.
We need a marketing group for
the marketing pages.
We need a layout inside of there and
we need at least the index.
There's a couple more pages if you
wanna make them, but they're so
redundant I didn't feel like
putting you guys through it.
We need a Dashboard route.
It also has its own layup and
its... layup... layout and
its own root page and then issues.
We have one for new, and then we
have this dynamic issues with an id.
So, looking at this,
go make all these routes.
What you should do if you want this to
work, is when you go make these routes and
we're gonna make it
together inside the pages.
For each one of these routes, you have to
have a component that returns something.
It can return null, but it has to return
something, and it'll break if you don't.
So, let's make these routes.
First thing is our root layout
that's already made, so,
don't have to touch that,
gonna keep that here.
The second thing is our marketing.
Since I just made this,
I'm gonna go ahead and play off of it.
I'll get rid of this about,
we have a layout here, so, I'm going to.
Wait, does marketing have layout?
Marketing does have layout.
So, I'm just going to say,
so, we have our layout.
And the one rule here is you have to
default export your pages with Next.js.
So, you can do it like this,
you can do a function declaration.
There's no wrong way to do it, but
it has to be a default export for pages.
For components or anything else, it
doesn't matter, whatever you want to do.
But for something that ends in a layout or
a page or
one of those special files that I talked
about, you have to do a default export.
That's how it knows what component you
want to be recognized as the route.
So, in the case of a layout, like I said,
you can return whatever you want, but
because it is a layout,
you just need to make sure you return.
You render the children in here, right?
So the children is gonna
be props that you get in.
So, that's the hello world of a layout.
It's just render the children.
Cool, and then for the marketing page,
just going to hello World.
For that, this is literally the roots.
This is what you would see on our
landing page if you went here.
So I'm just gonna call this home.
Call whatever you want, and
I'll just render home like that.
Pretty simple,
just got to return something here.
So, if we were to start this and
try to go here,
assuming the rest of the app isn't broken,
we should be able to see this.
So, I'm going to run this.
I keep wanting to run bun so bad.
Start that.
Cool, and I see home, right?
So, I'm in my layout.
My marketing routing group has a layout
and then that layout gets put in a layout.
Okay, so we got that.
We need to make a directory for Dashboard.
I'm gonna say Dashboard like that.
It also has a layout, so I'm gonna say,
layout.tsx and it also has a page.
So I'm gonna say page.tsx like that.
And same thing.
I'll just say Dashboard layouts.
You can call these whatever you want.
I noticed that if you use function
declaration in the error stack,
you'll see the name of it show up.
Whereas I think with this, I don't
know if it shows it in error stack, or
maybe they fixed it,
but it didn't used to.
But that might be the only
difference I can think of.
Again, because it's a layout, we just
need to make sure we render our children.
If you don't render the children here,
what do you think you
would see in this layout?
>> Student: Nothing.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, you see nothing.
You just see the layout and not the route.
So, the whole point of the layout is
just to pass through it's children,
the active route.
So, you have to do that.
>> Scott Moss: And then for
the page, same thing.
>> Scott Moss: Cool, so
now we got our Dashboard page.
So this should allow me to go to
/dashboard and I should see Dashboard.
Let's see.
>> Scott Moss: Cool, see Dashboard.
>> Scott Moss: All right,
what else do we need to make?
We need to make the issue stuff.
So the issues, one, we need to make
a page for /new and then a page for
/id/edit and
then the auth stuff.
So let's do that,
I'll start with the auth stuff.
So, for auth stuff we need
a route group called auth,
and then, inside of here we need
two folders, one called signup.
So get in a habit of like if
you need to make a route,
you have to make a folder and
then you have to make the file, right?
Because in the pages directory,
it was different.
The pages directory, the name of the file
was the route that you were gonna make.
So, you didn't have to make a route.tsx or
whatever,
you would do signup.tsx or signin.tsx.
The name of the file would
have been the route.
In the app directory, the name of
the route is the directory name, and
the file is always route.
It's always gonna be route.tsx,
no matter what the path is.
The path is the directory name,
not the file name.
So in this case, I have signup,
I need to also make sign in.
So these are two different directories.
They both have their own route or
I'm sorry, page.
>> Scott Moss: And
I'll just say, const signup.
>> Scott Moss: And just return literally
whatever you want cuz we're gonna make all
this a reality.
I'm just gonna copy that,
take it into sign in and
just replace it all with sign in.
>> Scott Moss: So
this should allow me to go to /.
Is it /auth, /signin, or.
>> Student: Just /signin?
>> Scott Moss: Exactly,
just /signin.
Because that's a route group,
it's not part of the URL, right?
If I got rid of these parentheses,
it would be /auth/signin, and
that's just tacky.
So, don't do that.
Use the route groups, be sophisticated.
Elevate yourself and your team.
[LAUGH] And then, issues, so, new folder.
This one we do want in the URL.
So I'm gonna say issues.
And then, two new subfolders in here.
One's gonna be called new, another one's
gonna be called id, so it's dynamic.
And then inside the id one is
another folder called edit,
cuz we wanna be able to
edit an issue by the id.
And then inside of that
one we want a page.
And then the same thing
inside of new we want a page.
>> Scott Moss: Cool.
>> Scott Moss: And
got to put some stuff in here.
So, I'll just say, edit issue page.
>> Scott Moss: Cool, got that.
And then, same thing with the new page.
Just gonna copy and paste, new issue page.
New.
>> Scott Moss: All right, and with that,
we should have all of our routes set up.
Like I said, there are some more in
the marketing, I have FAQ pricing,
all that stuff.
You wanna set that up, you can set that
up, it's the same, it's all the same.
I didn't wanna force you to do all that.
So now, I should be able
to go to /issues/new.
I see that, and then I should be
able to go to /issues/ literally
anything cuz it's a dynamic variable,
/edit.
Then I should see the edit issue page.
>> Scott Moss: Cool, notice we didn't have
to stop our server to introduce any of
those changes Next.js has a really
good build system that does hot
module replacement.
And all the things you've come to
expect from a decent tooling setup,
you get that for free,
so it's pretty good.
You don't really have to do stuff, even if
you change the environment variable file,
it will recognize that and change it.
So obviously there's more
to it than just this, but
I would say this is like 80% of it.
You can make a full app just by doing
more of what I just showed you.
There's really advanced routing stuff,
but honestly,
I've never used that stuff in production,
never had to, so
I don't know what people are making
[LAUGH] that they needed that.
But I'm guessing the Next.js team, the
Vercel team, added it for a reason, but I
personally have never had to use anything
outside of what I'm showing you right now.
Maybe I'm doing it wrong,
[LAUGH] but this is just my opinion.
>> Scott Moss: Cool.
>> Student: Someone said the red
is probably because you have.
>> Student 2: It's TypeScripts.
>> Student: The children has any type.
>> Scott Moss: What red?
This?
>> Student: And it needs a type.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
this needs type, yeah,
sorry, you're gonna learn from me
that I just ignore typescript errors.
So, if you're wondering why there's a red
squiggly there and I'm not concerned,
it's because I've just
ignored typescript errors.
And it's just if I want,
I mean, I guess I could add,
yeah, I forgot the one that they,
I think it's component with children or
something like that.
Component with,
I don't even know the type that you would
even need from react that has the specific
props with children, there it is.
Yeah, I could do that and then I could
just come here, and I could put it,
I could put it here too, actually.
Say props with children and then you
can add some props here, but, yeah,
I just come to ignore typescript errors.
But yeah, the red squiggly is just,
yeah, it's just typescript doing,
it's doing its job, it's doing its job,
I don't really care about it.
>> Student: App router
organization question.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
>> Student: Just in terms of directory
structure it's in your editor,
it's all alphabetical and
you've got actions API components
along with the different directories.
Would it be possible to organize it so
that you just have your routes in one area
and then your components folder,
for example, somewhere else?
>> Scott Moss: Yep, you don't have to put
any of this stuff in the app directory,
the app directory is just for routes.
Yeah, so if you wanted to for instance,
you can see I have database here,
lessons, Lib scripts.
You could take the components and
just move them out of the app directory,
which I used to do.
It wasn't until two months ago that I
started putting in App Directory and
I don't have a good reason,
it's just I got bored, so,
[LAUGH] I moved it into App Directory.
>> Student: Does the API
directory need to be in there?
>> Scott Moss: The API directory does
need to be in the app directory, yeah,
anything dealing with routes or pages
have to be in the app directory, yeah.
>> Student: And the chat is split, some
people really care about the typescript.
>> Scott Moss: Clearly, clearly, clearly.
>> Student: Someone said, I thought
I was the only one who ignored types.
>> Scott Moss: No, as you see, when we
deploy, I'm going to ignore all types,
I'm gonna tell our build
system to ignore all types.
It's just not worth it for me,
there are times where I do want the types,
but then there are times where it's,
I didn't pass this in.
React passed this in,
I don't really need to type this,
I'm never gonna do anything with this,
I personally don't care.
But if it's something that I'm making,
yeah, I wanna type that,
I definitely wanna type that
because I'm responsible for it.
But I'm betting that react's gonna do
its job in passing the children here and
it's always gonna be the same shape.
So, yeah,
I don't really care about typing that,
I feel that should already be typed,
but that's neither here nor there.
So, I get it, I think it's kind
of if you go to someone's house,
it's what level of mess can they tolerate?
Some people can only tolerate one sock on
the ground, some people can have rotten
food on the ground, and
they can just function that way.
So, it's just for me, it's somewhere in
the middle when it comes to typescript,
I have my limits, but
when it comes to framework specific stuff,
I care less,
it's not my thing, yeah, yeah.
>> Student: Is there common
helper types from next for
some of the more next
specific typing things.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, Next.js specific
typing stuff from my experience is usually
server-side things, so next response,
next request, a lot of that stuff.
Not really a lot on the client side
because as you'll see Next.js doesn't
have any opinions on the client side
when it comes to actually writing code.
A lot of the client-side stuff is these
file structures and opinions here, and
then anything else is a thing that
you import that's already typed.
So, they don't have specific things,
they just use react on the client,
it's pretty thin, yeah.
Yep, Mark.
>> Mark: Does app marketing,
in parentheses, /layout.tsx,
override the app/layout.tsx
or how do those interact?
>> Scott Moss: I will visually
show you how that interacts, so
I'm gonna go in here and let me just put
something in here that says marketing.
And then I'll put the children in here and
then I will go into the root one and
then I'll say root and
then I will go to marketing, I guess,
yeah, I'll just go to the root page.
Guess we're kind of already here, but so
you can see right here, here's the root
layout, here's the marketing layout,
and then here is the actual homepage.
So to answer your question,
how does it interfere?
It doesn't, it just gets nested, so
marketing layout becomes
a child of the root layout, and
then the home is a child of the marketing
layout, so they just become nested.
>> Student: So the root groups are still
nested inside its parent directory.
>> Scott Moss: Yep, exactly,
it's always, there is no way of opting
out of that other than, like,
trying to split instead of.
The only way to really opt out of,
not being inherited is to,
not have a root layout.
And literally every single
route that you have is part
of some route group, and
you don't have look right here.
We don't have a page, well, actually,
I'll just show you, so look,
we have a page here in the marketing,
right?
What do you think will happen if
I just put a page on the root?
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Scott Moss: Let's see,
cuz now technically we have two of them,
we have two home pages because
this does not exist in the URL,
so this technically is our index page.
>> Scott Moss: If I try to do this and
go home, look at that,
it decided not to render this one and
it rendered this one.
So, it's gonna take precedence
over whichever is the closest, so
it rendered the root layout.
It saw that there was an index page, so
it rendered that, this just got ignored,
so this is a collision,
this is a route collision.
So, when you start doing
these grouped routes,
you wanna be careful not to
have these collisions, right?
So how do you know if
you have a collision?
Well, you have to think about what
the actual route that's gonna render
when this page is routed
to in the browser.
So, in this case the actual route is
just / cuz this doesn't exist, so
if I had another page in here,
that would be a third conflict.
Had a page inside of Dashboard, that would
not be a conflict because Dashboard is
actually in the URL, so it'd be Dashboard.
So, this is not a conflict because this
exists in the URL, so the only other
potential conflict could be in here, so
you wanna make sure you account for that.
But if I were to put every single
potential route in its own route group,
if I put Dashboard in its own route group,
I put issues in its own route group,
I wouldn't need this root layout.
The route groups would have their own root
layouts, but then you'd be writing all
this global stuff all over again
every single time, which is annoying.
So, I think you should
always have at least a root
layout that reflects both your.
If you are making an app that
does marketing and an actual app,
just have a root layout
that's just bare minimums.
Hey, it doesn't matter if you're on
the signed-out experience or the sign in
experience, they're all gonna use this
title or this font or something like that.
And then from there you break it down to
the specific layouts per either route
group or route path, like Dashboard.